Market Research / Due Diligence

Clearly define the objective: the particular marketing challenge.


CHAOS: The chaos that contains the opportunity consists of multiple ideas. These include building a city, redeveloping existing real estate, creating a high-end hotel at Clifton Heights, converting empty office buildings into prime, high end residential. 
ETHOS: The guiding moral principles should be based on creating great family homes that provide exceptional value to society; designed and built with care for the builders, customers, society and future generations. 
LOGOS: Looking at the housing statistics (number of homes per 1000 people), and the rate of growth in house prices, it is apparent that demand far outstrips supply. Demand comes from both home makers (those who wish to own a home), and investors (those who invest to gain rental income and hold an appreciating asset).
PATHOS: People need good homes, especially families. A safe and beautiful home that creates, through its harmonious design, a good atmosphere for children, is a benefit to everyone, it produces value for current and future generations. Children raised in good homes have better opportunities and can contribute a calm and loving presence to the world.

QUESTONS: multiple questions need to be answered. What makes a good home? What scientific evidence supports the thesis that good homes create value for society at large? Some people may argue that adversity creates strength, and while this may be true in certain situations, the opposite is also true in many situations. 
How can I refine the opportunity? I need to generate cash flow, I need to earn money in order to finance the bigger opportunities, and in order to prove to investors that I am trustworthy!
Help me God, to work hard on what really matters, in a way that creates prosperity and growth, for me, and for society. Help me to be a bit more selfish, a bit more demanding, and a bit more optimistic!
Help me with my finances, with the ability to service and potentially minimise my debt. Help me to be calm and focussed, help me to be solid, indifferent, and a little bit arrogant 
The particular market challenge: 

Creating great, desirable new homes in desirable locations at costs that provide above average profit margins due to considerable efficiency gains and cost savings that are created through excellence in design, engineering and building processes.

The particular market is the high end residential market, this could be family homes, and or high-end apartments for singles or couples. The market research should help to shed light on which target demographic is most attractive. 
(Creative note: It may be possible to market our offering as single occupancy that can transform into multiple occupancy i.e. A Family dwelling, by minimising sleeping quarters and maximising living space) 
So the market research needs to identify the optimal target demographic, and the optimal design and spatial format based on verifiable data.

What are the design and spatial formats of the most sought-after homes? 
What do people end up buying and enjoying?
What do the best home builders do poorly?
What criteria sell a home other than overall market demand?
How do people make buying decisions?

Because there are a range of tastes (people do like different things), what particular housing styles and locations are the most popular according to demographics and income levels?



